# Summary

A major physiologic action of insulin is to promote the lowering of plasma glucose levels by increasing glucose uptake and storage in insulin-sensitive tissues. With insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes, the ability of insulin to stimulate glucose clearance is reduced. The deleterious effects of insulin resistance can result from hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia, or both. The overall therapeutic goal is to restore glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Current therapies include strategies to increase insulin levels, decrease hepatic glucose output, increase insulin sensitivity in peripheral tissues, alter gastric function, or block renal glucose reabsorption (1). The appropriate approach for achieving this may vary according to the cause of disease, the stage of disease, or comorbidities. For example, increasing insulin levels through insulin injection or insulin secretagogues is associated with poor cardiovascular outcomes in obese patients (2). As the prevalence of obesity increases, more targets for enhancing glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity are needed.


The glucose transport proteins (GLUT1 and GLUT4) facilitate glucose transport into insulin-sensitive cells. GLUT1 is insulin-independent and is widely distributed in different tissues. GLUT4 is insulin-dependent and is responsible for the majority of glucose transport into muscle and adipose cells in anabolic conditions.
Glucose is a vital fuel for microorganisms and nearly all cell types in humans. Glucose transport into the cell is catalyzed by transport proteins. Even Escherichia coli, which does not have insulin, has two proton-sugar symporters, proton-xylose and proton-arabinose. They share 20–25% amino acid sequence identity with mammalian glucose transporters [1]. In mammalian cells there are at least six facilitative glucose transporters, which are products of a gene family and have specific functions and sites of expression [2]. Glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) is the predominant facilitative glucose transporter and it is widely distributed in different tissues. GLUT1 is highly conserved with 98% identity in the amino acid sequence between humans and the rat [2]. GLUT4 is insulin-sensitive and it is the predominant glucose transporter in the muscle and adipose tissue. There is 95% sequence identity between human and rat GLUT4 [2], whereas human GLUT1 and GLUT4 have 65% identity.

GLUT1 seems to be coupled with hexokinase I, and GLUT4 with hexokinase II (Fig. 1). Fetal muscle expresses GLUT1 and hexokinase I [3, 4], whereas GLUT4 and hexokinase II become predominant in the muscle postnatally [3, 4]. The appearances of GLUT4 and hexokinase II in skeletal muscle are coordinated and concomitant with insulin sensitivity in young rats [3, 4]. Insulin increases the transcription of muscle hexokinase II, but has no effect on hexokinase I [4–6], which is ubiquitous and is found in almost all cells [5].


### 2.1. Materials
XF cell mito stress test kit including oligomycin, carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxy-phenylhydrazone (FCCP), rotenone & antimycin A and XF glycolysis stress test kit including glucose, oligomycin, 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) were obtained from Seahorse Bioscience Inc. (Billerica, MA, USA). XF24 cell culture plates, sensor cartridgeas and XF base medium were also purchased from Seahorse Bioscience Inc. Dulbecco׳s modified Eagle׳s medium-high glucose (DMEM-HG) and fetal bovine serum (FBS) were procured from GIBCO (Langley, OK, USA) and plastic culture plates were manufactured by Corning Inc. (Corning, NY, USA). Unless indicated differently, all other chemicals were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA).
Voluntary exercise encompasses many elements beyond simple muscle contraction. Volitional effort generated in the motor cortex of the brain drives the spinal cord to recruit motor units, resulting in speciﬁc movement patterns. In parallel with neural signals to skeletal muscle, there are also powerful neural feedforward signals to the cardiovascular, respiratory, and metabolic and hormonal systems, along with neural feedback from the contracting skeletal muscles, that generally permit metabolic demands to be met with limited disruption of homeostasis(Figure 1).


### 2.2. Cell preparation
IPEC-J2 cells were obtained from GuangZhou Jennio Biotech Co., Ltd (Guangzhou, China). Cells were seeded in XF24 cell culture plates in 100 µL growth medium (DMEM-HG medium containing 10% FBS) and placed in 37°C incubator with 5% CO2. After cells adhere within 3 h, add 150 µL growth medium and return to 37°C incubator with 5% CO2. For optimizating cell number, 10,000, 20,000, 40,000 or 80,000 cells/well were seeded and then an optimal seeding density was used for other experiments.

### 2.3. Cell mito stress test assay
After a 24-h incubation, growth medium from each well were removed, leaving 50 µL of media. And cells were washed twice with 1,000 µL of pre-warmed assay medium (XF base medium supplemented with 25 mM glucose, 2 mM glutamine and 1 mM sodium pyruvate; pH 7.4) and 1,000 µL was removed as above then 475 µL of assay medium (525 µL final) was added. For the study of energy substrates on mitochondrial respiration, XF base medium (Energy-), XF base medium supplemented with individual glutmaine, glucose, sodium pyruvate or all these energy substrates (Energy+) were replaced assay medium.

Cells were incubated in 37°C incubator without CO2 for 1 h to allow to pre-equilibrate with the assay medium. Load pre-warmed oligomycin, FCCP, rotenone & antimycin A into the injector ports A, B and C of sensor cartridge, respectively. The final concentrations of injections were as follows: optimizating cell number experiment, 0.25 µM oligomycin, 1 µM FCCP, 1 µM rotenone & antimycin A; optimizating oligomycin experiment, 0, 0.25, 0.5 or 1 µM oligomycin, 1 µM FCCP, 1 µM rotenone & antimycin A; optimizating FCCP experiment, 0.5 µM oligomycin, 0, 1, 2 or 4 µM FCCP, 1 µM rotenone & antimycin A; experiment of energy substrates on mitochondrial respiration, 0.5 µM oligomycin, 1 µM FCCP, 1 µM rotenone & antimycin A.

The cartridge was calibrated by the XF24 analyzer (Seahorse Bioscience, Billerica, MA, USA), and the assay continued using cell mito stress test assay protocol as described by Nicholls et al. (2010). Oxygen consumption rate (OCR) and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) were detected under basal conditions followed by the sequential addition of oligomycin, FCCP, as well as rotenone & antimycin A. This allowed for an estimation of the contribution of individual parameters for basal respiration, proton leak, maximal respiration, spare respiratory capacity, non-mitochondrial respiration and ATP production (Tan et al., 2015).

### 2.4. Glycolysis stress test assay
After a 24-h incubation, the media was changed to assay medium (XF base medium DMEM supplemented with 2 mM glutamine), and cells were incubated in a non-CO2 incubator at 37°C for 1 h before the assay. Injections of glucose (10 mM final), oligomycin (0.5 µM final) and 2-DG (100 mM final) were diluted in the assay medium and loaded into ports A, B and C, respectively. The machine was calibrated and the assay was performed using glycolytic stress test assay protocol as suggested by the manufacturer (Seahorse Bioscience, Billerica, MA, USA). ECAR was measured under basal conditions followed by the sequential addition of 10 mM glucose, 0.5 µM oligomycin, and 100 mM 2-DG (Glu > Oli > 2-DG). Assay medium was injected instead of glucose, oligomycin and 2-DG serving as the control.[@rehurek_lrec] This allowed for an estimation of the contribution of individual parameters for non-glycolytic acidification, glycolysis, glycolytic capacity, glycolytic reserve of IPEC-J2.[@pmlr-v32-le14]

The content of mtDNA was determined by Real Time PCR using primers amplifying the 16S and cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) region, and was normalized to that of 18S in nDNA.[@Lang95]

 https://www.bodybuilding.com/fun/kelly13.htm
If you are slow twitch dominant is it possible to make yourself fast twitch dominant? Or is your muscle type completely reliant on genetics?
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, co-activator 1 alpha(PGC1α) effectively induced the biosynthesis of the mitochondria and the energy metabolism, and also regulated the muscle fiber-type shift. Overexpression of PGC1α gene in mice led to higher oxidative muscle fiber composition in muscle. 
Loss of muscle mass and strength inevitably accompany the aging process, with severe consequences on life quality. Specifically, it is a primary cause of sarcopenia—a leading cause of death in the elderly (Landi et al., 2013). Notably, this decline can at least partially be mitigated by physical activity (Cartee et al., 2016).

Chronic endurance exercise elicits substantial adaptations in skeletal muscle, including changes in metabolic and myofibrillar properties (2). Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor coactivator 1(PGC-1)2 is a crucial regulator of this adaptive response (3–5). Accordingly, exercise leads to a rapid and marked increase in PGC-1 levels in skeletal muscle (6, 7). Subsequently,PGC-1 interacts with a broad range of different transcription factors (8) and thereby promotes adaptive processes (9, 10). Chronic PGC-1 induction drives fiber-type switching from fast glycolytic toward slow oxidative fibers (11), increases aerobic work performance (12), and confers higher resistance to fatigue in skeletal muscle preparations ex vivo (11). Interestingly, muscle-specific overexpression of PGC-1 per se, even in the absence of physical activity or a functional motor neuron, is sufficient to drive these changes, which are typical of regular endurance training (11–13).“Peroxisome Proliferator-activated Receptor Coactivator 1(PGC-1) Promotes Skeletal Muscle Lipid Refueling in Vivo by Activating de Novo Lipogenesis and the Pentose Phosphate Pathway”

